---
title: "Looking back on 2010"
date: 2011-01-01
categories:
  - life
tags:
  - decisions
  - new-year
---

# Happy New Year everyone!

This has unquestionably been the most eventful year of my life to date (other than the year I was born).  At the risk of sounding self-absorbed I’m going to list the highlights so that it can go down in my personal history.

Here are the bullet points of what happened in pseudo-chronological order:

-   Erek and I made it to the top 50 applications of the Knight News Challenge (out of about 2,400)
-   Google called me out of the blue asking for an interview (funny story behind this one)
-   Lyla received a Fulbright Scholarship to go to Spain
-   I was accepted into the MIT Media Lab
-   Lyla graduated from Temple University, finishing her five-year undergraduate program.
-   My childhood dog – Mrs. Duffy – had to be put to sleep 🙁
-   I ended my time working for [ColorQuick](http://colorquick.com/)
-   I got a book published!  Sort of.
-   Lyla and I drove 1000 miles in less than a week: Cheltenham to New York to Boston to O.C. Maryland back to Cheltenham
-   I spent a summer working for [SpeakerText](http://speakertext.com/)
-   [STARCRAFT 2](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_J6-3l3hCm0) CAME OUT!!!!
-   I got married
-   Lyla and I spent 10 days in Puerto Rico
-   We [moved to Boston](/2010/09/the-first-24-hours-of-boston/)
-   Lyla moved to Spain to begin her Fulbright
-   I started my first semester at MIT
-   I learned how to make almost anything
-   I completed my first semester at MIT
-   Lyla and I spent Thanksgiving in France
-   I visited Lyla in Spain for Christmas and New Years

Not too shabby!  This year contained my wedding, two jobs, two post-graduate programs, three countries, and one U.S. territory.

Also, for a few months in there Lyla and I were in solid running for: a $400,000 grant, employment at Google, graduate school at MIT, and a Fulbright scholarship.  Holy crap.

As for you 2011, the excitement bar is set pretty far up there. No pressure.